# Longitudinal scRNAseq of human pancreatic slices

Summary
This repository contains coding scripts utilized for the analysis performed in the "Single cell resolution analysis of the human pancreatic ductal progenitor cell niche" publication (Qadir/Alvarez-Cubela et. al, 2020). The purpose of providing the code here is to allow for transparency and robust data-analysis reproducibility. Most of the steps used for data analysis and visualization have been optimised for an average computing environment (for the year 2019). Some analyses however, require a high-performace computing environment (see computing environment). The methodology has already been described extensively in the manuscript. However, this analysis relies heavily on powerful scRNAseq analysis algorithms developed by the Satija lab, namely Seurat (Butler et al., 2018: Nature Biotechnology; Stuart et al., 2018: Cell) (for a complete list of dependencies and code utilized see analysis & visualization programs).

Overall design
This data is derived from the scRNAseq of ALK3Bright+ cells isolated from n = 3 independant human donor pancreas. These n = 3 files have been compiled into 1 dataset reffered to as the alk3n3 dataset.

How can I use this data, and where can I find it?
Downloading Data files
Data files utilized in this analysis have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), gene expression data repository at the NIH. Data are part of the GSE131886 high-thoroughput sequencing repository and can be found here. Data files have been renamed allowing for sample-origin information to be incorporated. Supplementary files contain Cellranger output files, which have been renamed to ensure clarity. Change file names (of filtered information) to 'matrix.mtx.gz', 'barcodes.tsv.gz' and 'features.tsv.gz' after seperating files into donor specific folders. This is necessary, to allow Seurat to read these files. Seruat cannot read files named in their current form. Please note, GSE raw data files are freely available for public download on GEO. If you would like further files such as seurat objects to download, please email the project leader for requests.

Data sub-structure
We povide raw FASTQ files generated from single-cell cDNA libraries sequenced by the Illumina sequencing platform, along with unfiltered post-alignment count files generated by the Cellranger v3.0.1 software. In addition we also provide a gene expression matrix containing data on filtered gene counts across our dataset.

FASTQ files
These are sequencing reads generated by the Illumina sequencing platform. Files contain raw reads and sequencing efficiency information. These are the input files for the Cellranger software.

Cellranger output (processed gene-counts of single cells/barcodes)
This contains data outputs of Cellranger v3.0.1, which was run using default settings. Code used to analyze data is a part of this repository. This data contains filtered/unfiltered count files for gene expression across barcodes/cells.

Data analysis of Longitudinal scRNAseq of human pancreatic slices datasets
Preliminary data-analyses involving n=3 de-identified human exocrine-pancreata derived ALK3+ cells are included in this file. This includes data thresholding, normalization, subsetting, linear dimensionality reduction (PCA), non-linear multimodal dimensionality reduction (PCA/UMAP), clustering, and data visualization.



Analysis and visualization programs
Cellranger software from 10X Genomics:
Cellranger
R and R's integrated developmental environment RStudio:
R v3.5.3 (x64 bit)
RStudio v1.2.1335 (x64 bit)
RTools v3.3.X
Tutorial for R
Tutorial for RStudio
scRNAseq analysis pipeline SEURAT developed by the Satija lab:
Source code for Seurat v3.0.0
Tutorials for Seurat
Pseudotemporal gene expression analysis using Monocle developed by the Trapnell Lab:
Source code for Monocle v2.8.0
Tutorial for Monocle
3D tSNE analysis and Gene expression plotting
Source code for plotly
Tutorial for plotly
Setting up the right environment
Install R
Install Rstudio
You are ready to rumble in the jungle.
Once you have installed R and RStudio, copy script from the first file in the Pancreas_ductal_scRNAseq/R_analysis_by_experiment/ folder. After this run and install all dependencies, and then load these packages allowing for analysis.
If you need help understanding how commands are run in R use the [ctrl + enter] command or please visit here.
If you run into problems, please open a new issue, you can do this by going to 'issues' and clicking on the 'new issue' icon. We will help you replicate our analysis! Do not fear single cell analysis!
Computing environment
Hardware and OS environment for running Cellranger
Environment 1
Processor: Intel Sandy Bridge E5-2670 (16cores x 16 threads)
RAM: 25GB
OS: CentOS 6.5
Environment 2
Hardware integrated into the Pegasus Supercomputing array at the University of Miami
Hardware and OS environment for running Seurat 
Analysis was performed/replicated on each of these computing systems, and ran optimally.

Processor	Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6230R CPU @ 2.10GHz   2.10 GHz
Installed RAM	96.0 GB (94.6 GB usable)
System type	64-bit operating system, x64-based processor
Edition	Windows 10 Enterprise
OS build	19044.2486
Experience	Windows Feature Experience Pack 120.2212.4190.0

Hardware and OS environment for running RNA velcoty- scVelo and Velocyto
IBM Power9/Nvidia Volta – 6 Racks
IBM declustered storage – 2 Racks
96 IBM Power 9 servers
30TB RAM (256/node)
64 bit scalar
400 TB shared home
2 @ 1.99 TB ssd local storage
-----
IPython             8.4.0
jupyter_client      7.3.5
jupyter_core        4.11.1
-----
Python 3.9.12 | packaged by conda-forge | (main, Mar 24 2022, 23:25:27) [GCC 10.3.0]
Linux-4.14.0-115.el7a.ppc64le-ppc64le-with-glibc2.17
Contributors
Mayur Doke - University of Miami - to contact please Email
Mirza Muhammad Fahd Qadir - Github - to contact please Email
The JDB Lab - Github - Diabetes Research Institute, UM
Lead Contacts
Dr. Juan Dominguez-Bendala PhD. - Diabetes Research Institute, UM - to contact please Email
Dr. Ricardo Pastori PhD. - Diabetes Research Institute, UM - to contact please Email
Acknowledgements
Diabetes Research Institute Foundation (DRIF)
Grant ID	Grant title	Affiliation	Name
R01 DK130846	Single-cell longitudinal analysis of regeneration in human pancreatic slices	University of Miami School of Medicine	Juan Dominguez-Bendala
R01 DK130846	Single-cell longitudinal analysis of regeneration in human pancreatic slices	University of Miami School of Medicine	RICARDO L PASTORI
U01 DK120393	HIGH-RESOLUTION CHARACTERIZATION OF HUMAN DUCTAL PROGENITOR CELLS AND THEIR REGENERATION POTENTIAL	University of Miami School of Medicine	Juan Dominguez-Bendala
U01 DK120393	HIGH-RESOLUTION CHARACTERIZATION OF HUMAN DUCTAL PROGENITOR CELLS AND THEIR REGENERATION POTENTIAL	University of Miami School of Medicine	RICARDO L PASTORI
If this was useful to you please dont forget to cite, star and fork this repository
